---
title: "Violation and Enforcement of Labor Regulations: Evidence from Mexican Firm Inspections"
collection: research
type: work_in_progress
permalink: /research/2025-05-14-inspections
excerpt: "This paper studies the characteristics of large formal firms violating labor regulations and the consequences of enforcing these regulations for firms and workers. We leverage inspection records linked to detailed survey and administrative employer-employee data for large manufacturing firms in Mexico. Firms violating labor regulations provide less training, rely more on outsourcing, and hold a higher labor market share. Using a staggered difference-in-differences approach, we causally estimate that conditionally random firm inspections increase total employment by around 4% within one year. Our results indicate that enforcing labor regulation compliance among large manufacturing firms can be an effective policy tool to improve working conditions, mitigate labor market power, and increase employment."
date: 2025-5-14
paperurl: ''
---
With [Agustina Colonna](https://www.agustinacolonna.com/) and [Lukas Rodrian](https://lukasrodrian.github.io/)

This paper studies the characteristics of large formal firms violating labor regulations and the consequences of enforcing these regulations for firms and workers. We leverage inspection records linked to detailed survey and administrative employer-employee data for large manufacturing firms in Mexico. Firms violating labor regulations provide less training, rely more on outsourcing, and hold a higher labor market share. We show that inspections tend to increase compliance with labor regulations by prompting greater investment in worker training, decreasing workplace accidents and reducing the likelihood of future violations during inspections. Using a staggered difference-in-differences approach, we causally estimate that conditionally random firm inspections increase total employment by around 4% within one year. These effects are unlikely to be driven by the formalization of informal workers. Instead, our findings are consistent with a model where monopsonistic firms leverage their market power to set both wages and working conditions. Improved working conditions increase labor supply as workers derive direct utility from them, as supported by survey evidence. Our results indicate that enforcing labor regulation compliance among large manufacturing firms can be an effective policy tool to improve working conditions, mitigate labor market power, and increase employment.

